Tech Writer Review of PPL Topic (#40)
ni/niveristand-custom-device-handbook: docs/Migrating_LLB_to_a_PPL_based_Custom_Device.md

## Migrating from LLB to PPL

A *packed project library* (PPL) is a compiled LabVIEW library (*.lvlib*) that contains the VIs of that library. PPLs allow you to call public VIs similarly to their use in the original project library.

PPLs were first introduced in LabVIEW 2010. From LabVIEW 2017 onward, you can compile a PPL for newer versions of LabVIEW. This option is enabled by default.

> **Note:** To change this setting, in the LabVIEW sidebar click **Advanced** and disable **Allow future versions of LabVIEW**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** To change this setting, in the Packed Library build specification, click **Advanced** and disable **Allow future versions of LabVIEW to load this packed library**.
```

This code can be called only once from within the target custom device. For an inline custom device, it must also be called in the RT Driver **Read Data from HW** case for engine initialization.

The following image displays where to insert this code.

![](images/Init_Global_Var_subVI.PNG)

#### Update Libraries

You must create a PPL for each LLB build specification in the project.

The PPL needs to have a similar configuration to the LLB. You should keep the same built files structure, including the same file structure as the LLB build specifications. This will allow you to reuse the build post-step to copy generated files to the VeriStand directory.

To make these library updates in LabVIEW, right-click **Build Specifications** and select **New** » **Packed Library**.

##### Information Settings

In the Configuration Release PPL Properties dialog box, click **Information** to enter a new **Build Specification Name**.

There are rules to consider when organizing the built files. These rules ensure that the files can be copied or moved to the VeriStand Custom Device's directory once built.

**Note:** The Post Build Action VI operates based on the same naming and path convention.

>  a) Custom Device System Explorer

Author: @phutanu I am not sure I understood the point of these sub-divisions.

## Migrating from LLB to PPL

A *packed project library* (PPL) is a compiled LabVIEW library (*.lvlib*) that contains the VIs of that library. PPLs allow you to call public VIs similarly to their use in the original project library.

PPLs were first introduced in LabVIEW 2010. From LabVIEW 2017 onward, you can compile a PPL for newer versions of LabVIEW. This option is enabled by default.

**Note:** To change this setting, in the Packed Library build specification, click **Advanced** and disable **Allow future versions of LabVIEW to load this packed library**.

Using a PPL to package a VeriStand custom device does not block the use of an LLB. The two options can coexist as a part of the same project. To use both packaging methods, retain the existing LLB build specifications and add the additional PPL build specifications to the project.

> **Note:** You may need to modify the custom device source code to support both options. You may also need to modify the XML configuration file to reflect the new loading paths for the custom device elements.

Author: @phutanu How does this rewrite sound?
"To support PPL and LLB packaging, you may need to make the following modifications to your custom device: 
•	Update the custom device source code. 
•	Update the XML configuration file to reflect the new loading paths for the custom device elements.
•	Include mutation code for backwards compatibility of custom data types."

##### Information Settings

In the Configuration Release PPL Properties dialog box, click **Information** to enter a new **Build Specification Name**.

There are rules to consider when organizing the built files. These rules ensure that the files can be copied or moved to the VeriStand Custom Device's directory once built.

**Note:** The Post Build Action VI operates based on the same naming and path convention.

 a) Custom Device System Explorer

![](images/PPL_Config_Info.PNG)

* The destination path should have the following structure: ``"..\built\Custom Device Name\Operating System``
* The PLL file name should use the following format: [Custom Device Name] + [Configuration]

The following image displays an example name and path of a Windows Configuration library file.

![](images/Sys_Explorer_Path.PNG)

 b) Custom Device Engine

* The destination path should use the following structure: ``"..\built\Custom Device Name\Operating System``
* The PLL file name should use the following format: [Custom Device Name] + [Engine] + [Operating System Name]

The following image displays an example name and path of a Linux engine file.

![](images/Engine_Path.PNG)

> **Note:** Future releases will only support one type of RT OS. There will be two targets: Windows and Linux x64.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Starting with VeriStand 2021 only one type of real-time operating system is supported: Linux x64.
```

#### Update the XML

You must update XML files either manually or by creating a **Post-Build Action** VI.

##### Manual Updates

To update manually, you will need to update the path for each LLB with the path of each corresponding PPL.

The following image displays the XML code sequence for the custom device RT Driver VI on a Windows target.

![](images/XML_Engine_Path_LLB.PNG)

You need to update what comes after the `<Path>` tag.

![](images/XML_Engine_Path_PPL.PNG)

The `<Path>` tag contains a path for a VI located inside a PPL. You need to update all the `<Path>` tags in the XML that reference VIs inside the newly created PPLs.

**Note:** You also need to update the `<RealTimeSystemDestination>` tags.

##### Post-Build Action VI

To automate path updates, implement a VI to update the XML file.

The following image displays one possible VI.

![](images/XML_updater.PNG)

You can set this VI in LabVIEW as a Post-Build Action for your engine or configuration build specification.

To set the action in LabVIEW, open the Engine Release PPL Properties dialog box and click **Pre/Post Build Actions** to enable **Excute VI after build**.

![](images/Execute_XML_updater.PNG)

> For an example of such a VI being implemented, refer to the [FPGA Add-on Custom Device](https://github.com/ni/niveristand-fpga-addon-custom-device). this custom device will be available in the upcoming version of the LabVIEW Custom Device Wizard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an example of such a VI being implemented, refer to the [FPGA Add-on Custom Device](https://github.com/ni/niveristand-fpga-addon-custom-device). this custom device will be available in the upcoming version of the NI VeriStand Custom Device Wizard.
```
